README.md, before:

# OpenMW for Android

## Building

There are two steps for building OpenMW for Android. The first step is building C/C++ libraries. The second step is building the Java launcher.

### Prerequisites

You will need some standard tools installed that you probably already have (bash, gcc, g++, sha256sum, unzip).

CMake 3.6.0 or newer is **required**, you can download the latest version [here](https://cmake.org/download/) (and place in your `PATH`) if your distro ships with an outdated version.

Additionally, to build the launcher you will need Android SDK installed, it is suggested that you use Android Studio which can set it up for you (see step 2).

### Step 1: Build the libraries

Go into the `buildscripts` directory and run `./build.sh`. The script will automatically download the Android native toolchain and all dependencies, and will compile and install them.

### Step 2: Build the Java launcher

To get an APK file you can install, open the `android-port` directory in Android Studio and run the project.

Alternatively, if you do not have Android Studio installed or would rather not use it, run `./gradlew assembleDebug` from the root directory of this repository. The resulting APK, located at `./app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk`, can be transferred to the device and installed.

## Credits

Original Java code written by sandstranger. Build scripts originally written by sandstranger and bwhaines.

Commit message:

Add a script to make debugging with ndk-gdb easier.

README.md, after:

# OpenMW for Android

## Building

There are two steps for building OpenMW for Android. The first step is building C/C++ libraries. The second step is building the Java launcher.

### Prerequisites

You will need some standard tools installed that you probably already have (bash, gcc, g++, sha256sum, unzip).

CMake 3.6.0 or newer is **required**, you can download the latest version [here](https://cmake.org/download/) (and place in your `PATH`) if your distro ships with an outdated version.

Additionally, to build the launcher you will need Android SDK installed, it is suggested that you use Android Studio which can set it up for you (see step 2).

### Step 1: Build the libraries

Go into the `buildscripts` directory and run `./build.sh`. The script will automatically download the Android native toolchain and all dependencies, and will compile and install them.

### Step 2: Build the Java launcher

To get an APK file you can install, open the `android-port` directory in Android Studio and run the project.

Alternatively, if you do not have Android Studio installed or would rather not use it, run `./gradlew assembleDebug` from the root directory of this repository. The resulting APK, located at `./app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk`, can be transferred to the device and installed.

## Notes for developers

### Debugging native code

You can debug native code with `ndk-gdb`. To use it, once you've built both libraries and the apk and installed the apk, `cd` to `app/src/main` and run `./gdb.sh`.

This also automatically enables gdb to use unstripped libraries, so you get proper symbols, source code references, etc.

## Credits

Original Java code written by sandstranger. Build scripts originally written by sandstranger and bwhaines.
